# GAM-maping

This project was created to accurately map loci from bulk segregant crosses using next-generation sequence technology.  Bulk segregant analysis involves taking two phenotypically distinct inbred lines, crossing them to create F1 progeny, then crossing those F1 individuals back to one of the parent types.  These backcross individuals will all be 25% one parent type and 75% the alternative parent type with original phenotypes that distinguish the parent types segregating in the population. The loci of interest are mapped by “bulking” extracted DNA from backcross individuals based on the phenotype of interest ie. into a high bulk and low bulk.  These bulks are then sequenced separately.  If individuals are bulked at random, the allele frequency differences between bulks across the genome should be negligible.  If individuals are bulked based on a phenotype that is controlled one or a handful of genes, this equivalence of allele frequencies between bulks will get distorted near the loci of interest, towards 50:50 in one bulk and towards 0:100 in the alternative bulk. We use a General Additive Model with a binomial fit to model the change in allele frequencies between a high bulk and a low bulk. The two bulks are first modeled together to show that variation within the project is in fact segregating at 0.25. The bulks are then modeled separately, confirming that at a majority of sites in the genome the allele frequency difference between bulks is negligible. Using the predicted values, maximum difference between bulks is located (distal arm of chromosome 3). The model is then bootstrapped to put confidence intervals around the identified loci. The mapping procedure identified 12 genes on the distal arm of chromosome 3 within the 95% bootstrapped CI.  The gene located directly under the point where the difference between bulks is maximized is a likely candidate for the phenotype being studied.     

